Mecer Inter-Ed can help you transform your IT department with Power Platform and Dynamics 365 role-based learning paths. Thanks to MIE, your key IT employees can dive into flexible, comprehensive training to enhance their prospects in IT, and your inexperienced IT professionals can expand their knowledge to boost their organisational value. Training is essential to succeed in the modern workplace – according to a study by Pearson VUE, 67% of technical professionals agree that certifications build confidence. About 35% of technical professionals claimed that getting certified led to salary or wage increases, and 41% said they’re happier in their jobs than before completing their certification. With all of this data supporting the need for IT skilling, it makes sense for organizations to provide their teams the training and certification they need on Microsoft Power Platform and Dynamics 365. While every organization benefits from a more skilled IT workforce, this article specifically targets those with the most to gain from Microsoft Power Platform and Dynamics 365. If you have any of the below positions at your company, these certifications are for you. MIE’s Microsoft Power Platform and Dynamics 365 certifications will sharpen these professionals’ skills to do more with less across the Microsoft Power Platform and Dynamics 365 application suites. Your IT professionals will also be guided on the next steps in their learning paths to escalate their careers with Microsoft role-based training solutions. Microsoft certifications, delivered by MIE, will help your professionals get all the details on how to automate basic business processes with Power Automate and how to perform basic data analysis with Power BI. You can also learn how to create simple Power Apps experiences and how to develop powerful chatbots using Power Virtual Agents. For a better understanding of how each Microsoft Power Platform certification applies to various roles and solution areas, have a look at this Microsoft quick guide. Build solutions to simplify, automate, and transform processes and tasks using Microsoft Power Platform. Gain broad applied knowledge of Microsoft Power Platform, including practical understanding of capabilities, boundaries, and constraints. Help businesses maximize the value of their data assets using Microsoft Power BI. Design, develop, secure, and troubleshoot Microsoft Power Platform solutions. Automate time-consuming and repetitive tasks by using Microsoft Power Automate. Lead successful implementations and focus on how solutions address the broader business and technical needs of organizations. MIE also offers a comprehensive range of Microsoft certifications focused on Microsoft Dynamics 365. When it comes to Microsoft Dynamics 365, MIE can help you drive your team’s success with certifications that empower your organization to sell, service, and deliver on the customer expectations of tomorrow. These certifications will equip your employees with the skills necessary to function in an ever-adapting ICT industry and leverage the latest Microsoft Dynamics 365 features for maximum efficiency. Microsoft’s role-based training and certifications will help your organisation close its skills and roles gaps. These training courses match employee roles with specific courses of study – providing a holistic view of how identified roles meet industry and market needs. MIE will ensure your employees learn the skills and capabilities needed for these roles, including specializations, hands-on experience, and practice requirements. MIE can help you: For more information, please reach out to Surita Du Plessis at suritadp@mecerintered.co.za Contact MIE to learn how to stay ahead of your competition.