Organisations of all sizes and across all industry verticals want to thrive in a digital world of constant change and technological progression. This demands a skilled workforce that is capable of meeting the demands associated with deploying, operating, and maintaining leading-edge infrastructure and emerging technologies. CEOs and decision-makers agree that talent development is their number-one need – particularly in an ever-evolving ICT landscape. At Mecer Inter-Ed (MIE), we agree with this and believe that regular training and re-skilling of employees is critical to achieving key business outcomes. “Our model is based on our unique ability to understand the professional and technical skills training requirements of our customers – including individuals, organizations, industries, governments and countries,” said Sean Evans, executive for business transformation solutions at MIE. “This lets us be a credible participant that helps our customers achieve their required target states in terms of business capabilities, and meet their desired business outcomes for value realization.” Since being appointed as a strategic VMware Authorized Training Centre (VATC), MIE’s mission has been two-fold: Through the innovative provisioning of education and enablement solutions, MIE provides its customers with world-class VMware-authorised training and certification solutions that combine theory with practice across these six distinct solution domains: MIE remains at the forefront of VMware authorized training and certification solutions and is committed to helping companies unlock the full potential of their VMware technology investments and human capital. We have an enduring commitment to quality and provide a world-class customer experience as the enabling partner of choice for VMware. Let MIE help you develop your next-generation workforce and drive organisational efficiencies with world-class VMware-authorised training and certification solutions. Click here to learn more about MIE’s VMware-authorised training and certification solutions. For more information, please reach out to Sean Evans at seane@mecerintered.co.za