Microsoft has rolled out a substantial update for Windows 11, adding a plethora of features to the newest version of its PC operating system. The Windows 11 22H2 Moment 2 update is currently being offered as an optional cumulative preview update. It can be manually installed by selecting the “Check for updates” button in the Windows Update section of Settings. The new features will form part of the compulsory March 2023 Patch Tuesday update, which will also come with important security fixes. One of the update’s major additions is the much-hyped ChatGPT-powered Bing Chat, which can now be accessed directly through a new typable search box in the desktop taskbar. While the text box is available to all users who install the update, Bing Chat will require signing up for the preview waitlist, which previously only provided access to the AI chatbot on the Edge browser. Once granted access, you can send your queries to Bing Chat by typing them in the taskbar search box. Two of the other significant new features are tabs in Microsoft’s basic text app for Windows, Notepad, and support for iOS devices in the Phone Link app. Notepad tabs will allow users to jump and copy text between different files without opening up an additional window, which could prove a boon to frequent multi-taskers. Microsoft punts Notepad as particularly useful for developers who want to create ready-to-compile code without formatting problems. Phone Link for iOS enables users to link their iPhones and perform functions like making calls, and viewing messages and contacts. The iOS capability will initially only be available to a small percentage of Windows Insider members. Windows has also improved support for Samsung users on Phone Link, including allowing them to control their phone’s hotspot via the Wi-Fi settings on their PC. In addition, Samsung users get the Recent Websites feature, which lets them transfer their browser session from their smartphone to Windows. Among several other new features in the latest Windows 11 update are the following: