President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced changes to his cabinet — including a new deputy president and ministers of electricity, transport, and public service and administration. Speaking in a broadcast address on Monday, 6 March 2023, Ramaphosa said that the purpose of the changes is to fill vacancies that have occurred and to direct government more effectively towards areas that require urgent and decisive action. “All parts of government are focussed on addressing those issues that concern South Africans the most,” he said. “They being load-shedding, unemployment, poverty, the rising cost of living, crime, and corruption.” As was expected, the Minister of Electricity in the Presidency, a new position Ramaphosa announced during his state of the nation address in early February 2023, will be Kgosientso Ramokgopa. Ramokgopa previously served as mayor of the City of Tshwane and was the head of investment and infrastructure in the president’s office until today. The electricity minister’s primary role will be to improve Eskom’s power station performance. “To effectively oversee the electricity crisis response, the appointed minister will have political responsibility, authority, and control over all critical aspects of the energy action plan,” Ramaphosa said. Ramaphosa also announced a dedicated ministry within the Presidency for planning, monitoring, and evaluation to focus more on the government’s performance. Mondli Gungubele, the new communications minister, was previously responsible for state security and planning, monitoring, and evaluation within the Presidency. Khumbudzo Ntshavheni, the former Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies, will take over Gungubele’s previous responsibility over state security and other tasks. In line with ANC tradition, the party’s recently-elected deputy president Paul Mashatile has also been appointed deputy president of South Africa. It comes after David Mabuza resigned as deputy president on Wednesday, 1 March 2023. Mabuza was previously ANC deputy president but did not contest the position during the ANC’s national elective conference in December 2022. Fikile Mbalula winning the position of ANC secretary-general has also necessitated that he make way for former KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikala, as the country’s new Minister of Transport. The new Minister of Public Service and Administration will be Noxolo Kiviet. Kiviet replaces Ayanda Dlodlo, who left the position vacant in November 2022 after taking up the job of World Bank group executive director for Angola, Nigeria, and South Africa. Ramaphosa also announced several new deputy ministers, including deputy ministers for transport, corporate governance and traditional affairs, and to the Presidency. The president’s announcement comes after months of anticipation and reports about an imminent cabinet reshuffle. Ramaphosa was initially believed to reveal his hand sometime before or close to the 2023 state of the nation address or Budget Speech. The reshuffle was finally set down for the evening of Thursday, 2 March 2023, after the president had consulted with various stakeholders — including major labour unions — during the day. However, it was delayed after Ramaphosa had supposedly fallen ill. He was then expected to reveal his new cabinet on Sunday, but in the afternoon, the Presidency confirmed it would only happen on Monday. The table below summarises President Cyril Ramaphosa’s cabinet changes, as announced on 6 March 2023.