At Tangent Solutions, we understand the importance and positive impact of Software Defined Networking (SDN) infrastructure in relation to connecting business solutions, people, and customers. SDN is a modern approach to IT networking infrastructure that, when architected correctly, delivers beneficial business results, and overcomes traditional network issues. Traditional IT networking issues that may be familiar to businesses include underperforming networks that lead to failures in application performance, poor elasticity, as well as lack of network control and visibility. A well-engineered SDN allows businesses to ‘right size’ their provisioning, maximise resilience, deliver traffic engineering, network automations, and integrations. Take a look at one of Tangent Solutions’ case studies on SDN as a Service solution which enabled a 99.999% POS uptime from 50%. Moreover, the cloud-based network dashboard enables proactive control and management on a more granular level than traditional networking, as well as the added value of network derived business data. Architecting SDN requires varied techniques and a different approach to traditional networks. It offers the ability to integrate into business systems, which is an integral part of engineering a future proof innovation platform from which a business can easily scale, as well as grow solution integrations. The complexity and configuration of traditional networking infrastructures make scaling harder and more costly. Furthermore, this complexity requires increased resourcing to manage as well as maintain. A major pain point is troubleshooting, as it is a manually intensive task which requires a lot of time. Taking a modern approach to networking allows businesses to activate a competitive approach to work and business spaces. This includes hybrid working, remote working as well as traditional office work, or the connecting of dispersed office locations. SDN innovations are transforming wireless technology into digital innovation platforms. Businesses need to plan for a future of increased wireless usage, protocols, and capabilities usage to support digital business. According to Gartner, 50% of enterprise endpoints will utilise networking services to deliver capabilities beyond networking by 2025. Engineering a scalable and ‘right sized’ SDN requires expertise and skills. Moreover, the integration of the infrastructure into business solutions needs strategic alignment, planning and delivery. Tangent is a business consulting firm specialising in technology, encompassing IT networking infrastructure, cloud services, intelligent automation, software development and cyber security. The Tangent Connect function is a specialised Cisco Meraki partner in Africa, with over 1000 deployments and counting. Our SDN as a Service offering is underpinned by experience and knowledge spanning various industries. Based on years of business insights, we are committed to delivering networks of the future. We understand that networks need to enable value added services and business solution integrations that enable business innovation. Contact Tangent Solutions today.