The National Energy Regulator of South Africa’s (Nersa) approved 18.65% electricity tariff hike for 2023 can only be altered through legal action, which could result in an even higher increase. The price increase is set to take effect on 1 April 2023. According to energy policy and investment advisor Anton Eberhard, South Africa could face a higher electricity price increase if a court ruled that Nersa didn’t follow the correct methodology. “SA’s power utility @Eskom_SA⁩ reminds the president that ⁦@NERSA_ZA⁩ alone sets the tariff & [the] 18.65% increase can only be altered via a legal challenge,” Eberhard said. “But if [the] court decides [the] regulator didn’t follow its methodology, an even HIGHER increase is likely!” Several groups have launched legal cases against South African energy industry institutions. These include an interdict application from South Africa’s official opposition, the Democratic Alliance (DA), to block the electricity tariff increase that Nersa approved. President Cyril Ramaphosa has also gone so far as to appeal to the Eskom board to delay its electricity price increase. News24 reports that the power utility responded to Ramaphosa, saying Nersa is the only entity that sets the electricity price tariff and that price hike could only be altered through a court application. Eberhard was referring to this report in his comments. “Neither Eskom nor any other authority can determine electricity prices, Nersa cannot change its own decision unless reviewed in a court of law,” Eskom stated. “Once a decision has been made, Nersa lacks any power to re-examine its decision. Charging any price other than that determined by Nersa is not legally possible.” Eskom welcomed the Nersa-approved tariff increase despite being substantially lower than the 32.05% it asked for. However, various political parties and worker’s unions have launched a legal case to end load-shedding and stop the energy regulator from raising power prices. The various parties — including the United Democratic Movement, Build One South Africa, the Inkatha Freedom Party, and the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa — filed a lawsuit this week demanding that the tariff hike be suspended. It is also asking for the shutdown of coal power stations in the next few years to be reconsidered. Other demands in the lawsuit include: The DA launched its own legal case against the approved tariff hikes on 20 January 2023 and marched to the ANC’s Luthuli House in Johannesburg on Wednesday in protest against load-shedding. “The DA rejects this astronomical increase,” it said. The political party wants the court to prohibit Nersa’s approval of the almost 19% price hike because it will make it impossible for some of the nation’s residents to afford power. Eskom said it needed the extraordinarily high increase due to the following factors: Nersa approved revenues of R318 billion for the 2023/4 financial year and R352 billion for the 2024/5 financial year.