HUAWEI Cloud has officially launched the third AZ in the South Africa region – a significant contribution by the global tech giant to local digital infrastructure development. Stone He, President of HUAWEI Cloud Southern Africa Region, said, “Over the past four years, HUAWEI Cloud has invested more than R3.5 billion in local infrastructure in South Africa, including ultra-large cloud data centres, networks, and services.” “This year, HUAWEI Cloud will keep making efforts with partners to promote the digital transformation of South Africa.” HUAWEI Cloud is the first international public cloud service provider to build local data centres in South Africa, and by using the 3AZ architecture, HUAWEI Cloud has launched security, AI, and big data services locally. HUAWEI Cloud’s AZ is designed to meet the needs of government, finance, Internet, and multinational enterprises, who require stability, reliability, security, trustworthiness, and sustainable innovation. HUAWEI Cloud’s launch of this AZ also aligns with its commitment to building a “Global one network” that facilitates “Everything as a Service.” This is proven by the fact that, as of the end of December 2022, HUAWEI Cloud had 29 regions and 70 AZs worldwide. Advanced features of the HUAWEI Cloud service include: By cooperating with global partners, HUAWEI Cloud continues to build its global cloud network – avoiding the impact of regional differences while helping clients to reduce their operating costs and accelerate their business development. One example of the benefits of HUAWEI Cloud is in the media industry. Thanks to HUAWEI’s global cloud service layout, media enterprises can provide HD live broadcast services across the globe. HUAWEI’s global low-latency backbone network guarantees ultra-low-latency live broadcast services for these media enterprises. Resources are dynamically allocated to adapt to broadcast needs quickly – ultimately helping media enterprises to give viewers the best experience possible. The mission of HUAWEI Cloud is to make the cloud ubiquitous, make intelligence ubiquitous, and build a cloud foundation for the intelligent world. HUAWEI Cloud will cultivate the fertile soil of the South Africa region, enable customers, partners, and developers with cloud-native technologies, and enable the digital transformation of thousands of industries. Click here to start your HUAWEI Cloud journey.