When was the last time you cleaned your mattress? “While it’s advisable to replace your mattress every seven years, you also need to clean a mattress thoroughly at least once a year,” explains The Mattress Warehouse founder, Zaach Smith. South Africa’s biggest online bed and mattress retailer explains, “we all take care of our bedding regularly, but we sometimes neglect the mattress. This also needs to be cleaned to extend the product’s longevity and, of course, for good hygiene.” It really depends on how often the bed is used. If it’s a bed that’s slept on every day, The Mattress Warehouse advises cleaning it at least once a year. However, if you’ve had any unfortunate mishaps, like spilling your morning coffee in bed, you need to clean it immediately before the stain or an unpleasant odour sets in. First, you must strip the mattress of all the bed linen. Most vacuum cleaners are fitted with an upholstery attachment, so you can use this appliance to thoroughly vacuum the mattress from top to toe. Do not soak your mattress with water or cleaning solutions. This can damage the mattress. A memory foam mattress, for instance, is not designed to get wet. Unfortunately, mattress stains are quite common, but the good news is that you can fix them. When it comes to household stains, you need to spot clean. This is how it works: create a mixture using a liquid dishwashing solution, baking soda, and hydrogen peroxide. Place it in a spray bottle. Spray or dab the mixture directly onto the stained mattress area with a damp cloth and blot the stain away. Alternatively, you could find a natural enzyme cleaner to clean up the stain by breaking down the chemical content. Sprinkle the mattress with baking soda and leave it for several hours. Hot tip: the longer you leave it, the better the result you will get, as baking soda absorbs moisture and unpleasant odours. Afterwards, you can vacuum up the baking soda. UV rays from the sun can remove just about any stain and are a great way to clean a mattress. So, let the mattress sit outside for some sunlight.  Just make sure to check the weather report before leaving your mattress outside to catch a few rays. After the cleaning process, it’s recommended that you flip the mattress. Check the manufacturer’s recommendations. Flipping a mattress has great benefits, like providing new vitality and increasing longevity. A waterproof mattress protector is also advisable to protect your mattress from future stains or odours. This will also make your next mattress cleaning job that much easier. At The Mattress Warehouse, we are passionate about beds, mattresses and the type of bedroom accessories that help create a dreamy bedroom. The trusted South African brand is fully online and has a wide range of warehouses nationwide. Explore the full range of top-quality mattresses and beds for sale.