SYSPRO has launched a suite of certified and vertically-integrated Independent Software Vendor (ISV) solutions to provide customers with choice, flexibility, and a competitive edge. These solutions are thanks to SYSPRO’s partnerships with many new vendors to expand and complement its existing ISV offering across specific enterprise business processes. SYSPRO works with these software vendors to deliver scalable, perfect-fit business solutions quickly and precisely. “A rich ecosystem of complementary ISV solutions provides added value to businesses that use an ERP application,” said SYSPRO Chief Product Officer Paulo De Matos. “It lets them choose specific solutions rather than undertaking heavy customisations of their ERP system.” De Matos also noted that “it is vital to invest in an industry-built ERP system that acts as a platform and allows easy integration of third-party solutions.” “Each ISV experiences a deep vetting process in order to be certified into the program, where they then work closely with our team of product experts to ensure compatibility and fit of the solution,” said De Matos. After being vetted, the top ISV solutions across the Americas, EMEA, and APAC regions were selected to join the SYSPRO program. Here are the ISV solutions that were certified to join SYSPRO’s program: Each of these solutions expands SYSPRO’s existing ISV offering to form a global product suite that provides everything businesses with ERPs need. Furthermore, SYSPRO will continue building a connected community of ISV partners that will complement its evolving product roadmap and enhance the SYSPRO solution. SYSPRO is a leading global Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software provider specialising in key manufacturing and distribution industries. It is a trusted advisor to more than 15,000 licensed companies in over 60 countries and has 40 years of experience addressing unique industry needs to enable its customers to adapt and grow easily. SYSPRO’s evolving solutions align with industry trends to leverage emerging technology that will enable partners and customers to secure a digital future. Click here to learn more about SYSPRO’s ISV solutions.