Internet service provider (ISP) RSAWeb was hit by a major network outage on Wednesday, leaving its customers without Internet connectivity countrywide. RSAWeb first posted a network notice at 06:51 AM on its Facebook and Twitter pages, informing customers that it was observing a service-impacting event on its cloud. It initially said the problem only affected its customer cloud in the Cape Town region and its voice-over-IP platform and that engineers were investigating. But numerous RSAWEB fibre customers from all over the country responded and said they either had intermittent connectivity or could not use the Internet at all. RSAWeb customers on the MyBroadband Forum also confirmed that they had no connectivity. Customers affected appeared to be on various fibre networks — including MetroFibre, Openserve, Vumatel, and Octotel. Octotel is a sister company to RSAWeb, as investment firm Actis owns both. In an update at 08:38 AM, RSAWeb said its network was experiencing disruption to “key services” affecting cloud and RSAWeb internal systems. The ISP said its engineers were actively working on a resolution and that it would provide further updates. Networkstatus.co.za showed a surge in reports about issues on RSAWeb from just after 06:00 AM, with 165 reports in the past 24 hours up to 09:15 AM. That compares to a typical daily average of 56 reports.  At the time of writing, RSAWeb’s mobile app and website were offline, with the latter only showing archived versions of its pages. As a result, customers have been unable to view its network notices page for updates regarding a fix of the issue. RSAWeb advised its home customers to contact its support teams through support@rsaweb.net, and business customers use soc@rsaweb.net. MyBroadband asked RSAWeb for more details on the outage, but it did not immediately provide feedback to our query. In its latest update at 9:39 AM, the ISP said that customers with fibre, hosting, and VoIP services could experience intermittent or no connectivity.