Tech should just work, so your team can do the same. Poly audio and video innovations blur the walls between the meeting space and wherever your WFH team members join from. The advanced artificial intelligence-driven technologies naturally adjust to meeting participants and the flow of conversation, in the room and on the call. Poly Director AI provides a full view of all participants while automatically tracking and framing who’s presenting. So every call is up close and professional. Poly’s Microsoft Teams Rooms’ certified solution brings together both worlds perfectly. Regardless of the size of your meeting room Teams Rooms Kits are designed to deliver simple yet flexible meeting experiences. We also have other enhancements that make it easier for you to run your meetings in a Microsoft Teams enabled room. This new app lets users take control of a Poly conferencing camera from a touch controller. You can turn the auto-tracking on or off and manually control the camera of adjust the auto-framing mode from group to speaker or people on the fly. This allows you to choose the best camera setting for that particular moment in the meeting, such as a presentation, brainstorming session or group discussion. Even if someone receives a video meeting invite that’s not a Teams meeting, they will still be able to enjoy the pro-grade video and audio quality in the meeting room. Simply connect a USB cable to the laptop and you are able to instantly select the Poly camera, mic and speaker. Any size team. Any size room. Any location. All together. We’ve made it easy to choose the right kit for your specific meeting room. Focus and Small Rooms  Medium Room  Large Room   Poly’s Microsoft Teams Rooms kits are the answer to your team’s productivity. Get in touch today. Headset Solutions is a distributor of premium audio, video and conferencing products which include Poly, Jabra, Konftel, Mersive, Hisense, Yeastar and Yealink. We deliver cutting-edge telecommunication solutions – backed by an extensive inventory, exceptional service and after-sales support – to ensure our customers achieve their objectives and remain competitive. Our African footprint begins with our head office in Somerset West, Cape Town and includes offices in Mauritius, Madagascar and Kenya. To learn more, visit www.headsetsolutions.co.za