Cooperative governance minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma gazetted regulations for South Africa’s national state of disaster over the energy crisis. The regulations designate “critical electronic communications and broadcasting infrastructure” as essential. It allows cabinet ministers to grant load-shedding exemptions for this essential infrastructure. However, the power to grant exemptions comes with restrictions. Load-shedding exemptions or reduced rotational power cut schedules for specified essential infrastructure and services may only be granted where technically feasible. Exemptions must also align with the requirements and obligations of the System Operator, and only to the extent that exemptions or reductions would not result in an increased risk of higher stages of load shedding. The Eskom System Operator is responsible for balancing supply and demand on South Africa’s electricity grid and determines the stage of load-shedding customers must implement. Its customers include municipalities and Eskom itself, which design and implement their load-shedding schedules according to the System Operator’s requirements. Each 1,000MW of electricity capacity shed nationally from the grid represents a stage of load-shedding. In addition to granting exemptions to telecommunications infrastructure, South Africa’s communications minister, Khumbudzo Ntshavheni, will be able to issue directions on disseminating information required for dealing with the national state of disaster. Mobile network operators and broadcasters will be required to issue public service announcements on the national state of disaster at no cost to users. The regulations stipulate that any directions from cabinet ministers must be within their mandate, and done in consultation with Dlamini-Zuma and other relevant cabinet members. Other essential infrastructure for which exemptions may be granted include health, water, sewerage, rail, ports, and food production and storage. Water boards and municipalities will be required to revise the minimum operational levels for reservoirs, increase water treatment and reservoir storage capacity, and revise water treatment schedules to maximise water treatment while electricity is available. The relevant cabinet ministers may allow them to take other measures to ensure water security. They may also exempt water boards or municipalities that are water service authorities from penalties for exceeding the notified maximum demand during load-shedding periods. In addition to possible exemptions for critical infrastructure, the regulations also cover relaxing environmental impact controls, and developing feed-in tariffs for individuals and businesses to sell electricity into the grid. Specifically, the regulations will allow: Essentially, these regulations appear to pave the way for quick-and-dirty repairs to Kusile power station, and potentially fast-tracking an emergency power supply deal with the controversial Karpowership. It should be noted the ANC has been linked to a potentially corrupt tender involving Kusile’s boilers, which former Eskom CEO André de Ruyter has said have the wrong specifications for the plant. However, the regulations could also pave the way for rapidly introducing feed-in tariffs and allowing privately generated solar power to feed into the grid. In particular, it will enable cabinet ministers to issue directions for: Crucially, the regulations allow all activities permitted under the state of disaster to continue after it ends. This is stipulated as follows: In a statement issued on Tuesday, the government said these disaster regulations come after a sitting of the President’s Coordinating Council as well as a special sitting of Cabinet on the evening of Monday, 27 February 2023. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that his administration had declared a national state of disaster to tackle South Africa’s energy crisis during his state of the nation address on 9 February. Eskom-disaster-regulations-48145rg11547gon3089