South African businesses must embrace the cloud in 2023 if they want to be successful in the modern world of work. Huawei Cloud is the best option for service providers who want to offer their business clients the ability to achieve this, as it provides robust and comprehensive cloud solutions that optimise business operations. The Huawei Cloud ecosystem not only comprises a large range of solutions that make it easy for you to solve the specific challenges of your clients, Huawei also has a strong presence in South Africa – enabling easy access to support, should you need assistance when delivering services to your clients. Here are six reasons you should partner with Huawei Cloud in 2023. Huawei Cloud prioritises its partner-centric business model in South Africa – meaning its top priority is always to help its partners deliver superior services. It is trusted by many service providers in the country thanks to this business approach. As a global technology giant, Huawei has a large research and development department that ensures the technology used in Huawei Cloud is of the best quality. Huawei Cloud continues to invest heavily in R&D, capacity, redundancy, and specialist technical support, to ensure that customers moving to the cloud can focus on digital transformation. Huawei’s outstanding infrastructure includes up to 20ms latency between their availability zones (AZ) and up to 30% more powerful compute than previous-generation hardware, as well as vast pre-integrations into third-party software providers. Huawei’s size and market share, allows it to provide a more preferential service to its partners. They offer real commercial benefits, such as unique margin structures, a rebate model, and marketing support which differentiates them from competitors. Huawei has an impressive 24/7 global support structure with outstanding knowledge to help you solve all of your clients’ Huawei Cloud queries. For a more personal touch, Huawei also has a large team of local experts who can help you with queries and support. Huawei Cloud is committed to helping its partners access unlimited, accessible, and ongoing training and certifications. Many of these certifications are funded by Huawei, and include the HCIA, HCIP, and HCIE certifications for associates, professionals, and experts respectively. Huawei doesn’t just provide a cloud service – it also offers marketing resources that help you promote Cloud products and solutions to your current and prospective clients. What’s more: South African Huawei Cloud partners have been featured in a variety of leading publications, as well as on Huawei Southern Africa’s LinkedIn page. There has never been a better time to become a Huawei Cloud partner – so click here to learn more.